.. description: For anyone who has ever thrown a Frisbee速/ Flying Disc.
.. tags: talk, barcamp, ultimate, introduction
.. title: What the Huck!
.. link:
.. author: punchagan
.. date: 2013/09/30 01:00:00
.. slug: what-the-huck

TL;DR: Honesty, Intensity and Joy!  The reasons why I play Ultimate

What the Huck.  Ultimate Frisbee速 101, for anyone who has ever thrown
a Frisbee速 or a Flying Disc.  I gave a talk today at Barcamp titled
*"What The Huck"*, which was intended to be an introduction to Ultimate,
one that would hopefully get more people to play the sport.  But,
unfortunately, I guess I chose the wrong title for the topic, and not
too many people turned up for the talk.  So, I decided to post the
gist of my talk here.

For those who do not know, what Ultimate Frisbee速 is, here is a nice
`one minute summary of the rules of the game
<http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NhTHzkWoB6A>`_.

Long ago, a couple of friends shared with me a kind of a mantra that
`Vivian Richards <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vivian_Richards>`_
shared in an interview: _Honesty, Intensity and Joy_.  We just loved
this mantra.

In another time and age, the same couple of friends, introduced me to
the sport that I love, called `Ultimate
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultimate_(sport)>`_. (A shout out to
`@cloud9trt <https://twitter.com/cloud9trt>`_ and `@avudem
<https://twitter.com/avudem>`__ for that!  Thanks folks!) This game
was fun, from the word go, but as I played it more and more, I fell in
love with this game.  As an after thought, I think one of the reasons
I love this game, is because it imbibes all the three values that Viv
mentioned: Honesty, Intensity and Joy.  Or actually, just for these
three things!

Honesty
-------

I play Ultimate, for the `Spirit
<http://ultimatesport.in/posts/spiritn-spirit-the-keystone-of-ultimate.html>`_
it involves.  `The rule #1
<http://www.wfdf.org/sports/rules-of-play/doc_download/20-rules-of-ultimate>`_
of the game is the spirit of the game, and the whole game relies on
the fact that the game be played in it's spirit.  Unlike most other
sports, Ultimate is self-refereed at the highest levels of the game.
It places the responsibility of fair play on every player, trusting
that no player would intentionally break the rules.  Essentially, the
game treats us as adults!  And that leads to a lot more intensity, and
a lot more fun in the games!  Games in tournaments (in India), end
with teams getting together in a spirit circle, where both the teams
circle up, and discuss, praise and criticize each others' games,
giving each other constructive and critical feedback.  You can play as
intense a game as you want, and at the end of it, finish off with an
equally important and intense, but stupid `spirit games
<http://www.ultipedia.org/wiki/Spirit_games>`_ and go home with no
hard feelings towards any of your opponents.


Intensity
---------

The game is `intense <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9S0l-gQLQs>`_.
`Very intense <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cyOjtn9SxP4>`_.  Very
unlike the popular idea of throwing a disc in a park.

This intensity is a sort of a healer, for me.  Taking you into a
different sort of a world, away from the craziness of every day life.
Each time you get on the field, you want to give your best, for
yourself, and for your team.  Anyway, if you don't, you opponents
would kick your ass.  And that definitely doesn't feel good. ;^)

Joy
---

I play for pure joy.  The sight of a disc floating in front of me, is
so luring for me that I MUST chase it down and catch it.  The sight of
players, even from your oppositions, `jumping sky high to come down
with the disc is such a joy
<https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=703778059638034&set=a.703168979698942.1073741838.633734823309025&type=3&theater>`_!

Ultimate involves a huge range of "tasks" - marking, defending,
catching, throwing.  Each of these tasks need quite a lot of practice
to get good at.  Learning a new skill is always a joy, whether it is
learning to throw a forehand flick or a hammer, or it is to learn how
the zone defense works.


In conclusion, what I found out today is that it's quite difficult to
talk about a game you love, and get across it's awesomeness. Some
things can only be experienced first hand!  See you on the field!

PS: A `Huck <http://www.ultipedia.org/wiki/Huck>`_ is a long distance
pass - typically half the playing field or more. Hucks are a big part
of many offensive strategies as they often result in quick points or
substantial yardage gains.
